# Banking dataset
In today’s world, where huge amount of data is generated in every field of day-to-day activities, banking sector is one of them. As an outcome of work, various machine learning concept are studied with respect to Bank marketing data classification. Banking is a provision of the services by bank to an individual customer. The dataset is originally collected from UCI Machine learning repository and Kaggle website. The data is related to bank marketing campaigns of banking institution based on phone call. In this work, Python is used as a coding language and Machine learning concept is used as statistical learning for data analysis. The main reason of using machine learning is to build a predictive model to produce the better prediction. The outcome of the result is analysed with supervised Random Forest algorithm for classification purpose. The Customer bank dataset is used for term deposit prediction. This dataset is publicly available at UCI machine learning repository. It contains customer information. This dataset contains 11163 records and 17 attribute. The dataset has two types of prediction either Yes or No. There are 16 input feature and 1 output. The facts are associated with the direct advertising and marketing campaigns of a Portuguese banking institution. The marketing campaigns have been primarily based on telephone calls. Often, a couple of contact to the identical client was required, in order to access if the product would be or now not subscribed by means of the customer or no longer. Term deposits are a major source of income for a bank. A term deposit is a coin’s investment held at a financial organization. Your money is invested for an agreed rate of interest over a hard and fast amount of time, or time period. The financial institution has numerous outreach plans to promote period deposits to their clients together with email marketing, advertisements, telephonic advertising and marketing, and digital advertising and marketing. Telephonic advertising campaigns continue to be one of the simplest ways to reach out to human beings. However, they require big funding as massive call centres are employed to really execute those campaigns. Hence, it's far important to become aware of the customers maximum probable to convert beforehand so they can be mainly target via calls. The data is related to direct marketing campaigns (phone calls) of a Portuguese banking organization. The category purpose is to predict if the patron will join a term deposit.
# 1 file- coding part:
Firstly, I did import the libraries and then loading the dataset and show top 5 records and check shape and null values after that show the datatype and unique values and then statistical summary.
I apply label encoder method to change category to numerical and then drop some columns. Further that, I did data visualization, train and test split method, modeling then I find out optimal model and make confusion matrix, ROC Curve and at last Classification Report .
After implementing, the result acquired become best.
# 2 file- report
In report I do detail description of all the things like graphs , data dictionary, train test split, modelling, ROC, confusion matrix, classification report in the word document.
